---
layout: post
title:  "March 15th: Kaufmann 2016" 
date:   2021-03-01 15:00:00 +0100
categories: meetings
---
We read _Free choice is a form of dependence_  by Magdalena Kaufmann. Below you can find the original abstract from the paper. 

<b> PAPER:</b> Kaufmann (2016). Free choice is a form of dependence. *Nat Lang Semantics* 24, 247–290.
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s11050-016-9125-4"  target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"> https://doi.org/10.1007/s11050-016-9125-4 </a>

<b> WHEN:</b>  Monday 15 March 2021, 15:00 - 16:30 (Amsterdam time)

<b> ZOOM LINK:</b> <a href="https://uva-live.zoom.us/j/89274178397"  target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://uva-live.zoom.us/j/89274178397 </a>

<b> PDF:</b>  <a href="{{ site.url }}/download/kaufmann2016.pdf"  target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">{{ site.url }}/download/kaufmann2016.pdf</a>

<b> DISCUSSION NOTES:</b> to be added at the end of the meeting 


<b> ABSTRACT: </b>

<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: justify;">
This paper refutes the widespread view that disjunctions of imperatives
invariably grant free choice between the actions named by their disjuncts. Like other
disjunctions they can also express a correlation with some factual distinction (fact-dependent reading), but as with modalized declaratives used for non-assertive speech
acts this needs to be indicated explicitly. A compositional analysis of one such indicator, depending on, constitutes the point of departure for a uniform analysis of
disjunctions across clause types. Disjunctions are analyzed as sets of propositional
alternatives that correlate with a partition that the speaker may or may not be able
to indicate explicitly. Free choice arises as the specific case where the partition is
induced by the preferences of the addressee (understood as necessarily consistent
effective preferences/‘goals’).
</p>


</blockquote>
