---
layout: post
title:  "October 19th: Bott et al. 2019" 
date:   2021-10-19 16:00:00 +0200
categories: past2122
---

<p style="text-align: justify;">
 We read 'Empty-Set Effects in Quantifier Interpretation' by Bott et al. Below you can find the original abstract from the paper.

</p>

<b> READING:</b> Bott et al. "Empty-Set Effects in Quantifier Interpretation" (2019).

<b> WHEN:</b>  Tuesday 19 October 2021, 16:00 - 17:00 (Amsterdam time)

<b> WHERE:</b> hybrid: F1.15 (ILLC building) + zoom (see zoom link below)

<b> ZOOM LINK:</b> <a href="https://uva-live.zoom.us/j/87905565086"  target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://uva-live.zoom.us/j/87905565086</a>

<b> PDF:</b>  <a href="{{ site.url }}/download/bott2019.pdf"  target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">{{ site.url }}/download/bott2019.pdf</a>

<b> DISCUSSION NOTES:</b> to be added at the end of the meeting. 

<b> ABSTRACT: </b>

<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: justify;">
This paper proposes a novel, cognitively motivated theory of natural language quantification and presents experimental evidence for it. 
Taking into account recent findings from number cognition the theory readily explains (1) that the restrictor argument of natural language 
quantifiers universally has a domain-relativizing function and (2) that monotone decreasing quantifiers are often more difficult to process 
than increasing quantifiers. In the proposed theory, quantifiers that do not have the empty set as a witness set are simpler to evaluate than 
those that do (what we call empty-set quantifiers). This explains enhanced difficulty of monotone decreasing quantifiers because they are 
always empty-set quantifiers. Furthermore, quantificational complexity is predicted to be extraordinarily high if such an empty-set quantifier 
has to be evaluated in a situation in which its scope is empty (what we call empty-set situations). These predictions were tested in three 
experiments investigating the online comprehension and the verification of quantified sentences. The first experiment established empty-set effects,
 i.e., enhanced difficulty during the online interpretation and the evaluation of empty-set quantifiers relative to non-empty-set quantifiers, particularly
 during the evaluation of empty-set situations. The second experiment supports our claim that empty-set effects have to be distinguished from monotonicity 
 effects. Empty-set effects were observed for the non-monotone Boolean combination of quantifiers none or three dots relative to one or three dots. 
 The third experiment shows that the proposed theory of quantificational complexity is not limited to simply quantified sentences but can account for 
 doubly quantified sentences, too. It was manipulated whether the first and/or the second quantifier were empty-set quantifiers. The experiment shows 
 that the difficulty of empty-set quantifiers adds up in a cumulative fashion – a finding only expected under a ‘recursive’ version of the proposed theory.
</p>


</blockquote>
